This is Jockel Podcast number 197 with Andrew Paul and me, Jockel willing. Good evening Andrew. Good evening
For those of you that don't know Andrew Andrew
What's one of my brothers from task unit? Bruser. He's now with us at echelon front and if you haven't heard podcast
Number 42 that's when Andrew came on and
talked about his experiences
But we're not really interviewing Andrew today. He's just filling in for echel Charles
Who's on vacation again?
Vacation. Yeah, so that's why Andrew's here. So I have someone to talk to
Otherwise it gets lonely in the podcast room
All right
He've heard me say before if you know the way Broadway you see it and all things that's what
A little quote from Musashi
But beyond that when you pull the thread on things
When you dig down and you dig in
You find that things are are
Not just similar. They're actually connected. There's a thread that runs through time and through history
And there's a thread that runs through
knowledge
Knowledge itself and when you start connecting things you understand them better so there's some I see them all the time
In about face my
favorite book
Colonel David Hacworth talks about one of his mentors
The guy he served with and the guy named Glover Johns
Who was a officer in the army who wrote a book that we covered on this podcast called the clay pigeons and St. Lo
How how crazy is that connection? I had John Stryker, my run and
When when he was on in one of his books he was talking about Elden Boswell a
Sog operator
That actually was a mentor to one of my mentors in the seal teams
To connection how crazy is that?
What about the fact that I
read about and admired
Dick Winners
Commander the second of the 506 the band of brothers and Europe
And then in Ramani we worked with the first of the 506
So these connections there just everywhere
There's everywhere you look things are connected now one of my favorite old field manuals is called FM
100 attack five field service regulations
It was issued by the Department of War on May 22nd, 1941 and it's an awesome
Manual all kinds of information and I'm gonna cover it on the podcast, but the thing is the FM 100 attack five
is not
the most original document that I've ever seen and
I've talked about the roots of maneuver warfare in fact we covered a book called maneuver warfare
and the
influence of the Prussian armies defeated the battle agenda
You got general sharn horse and his
influence on the Prussian
Military and thereby the German military well what's interesting is FM 100 attack five again
This is an American field service regulations an American field manual it was so
plagiarized it completely plagiarized from another document and this document
is called
Troopinfrug, which is my attempt at German Troopinfrug
which basically translates to
leading troops and it was first published in
So we're talking about Nazi Germany and it was prepared by
by a group of people a group of military men, but the leader of that group of military men was a guy named Colonel General
Ludwig Beck
now
Nazi's obviously are a scourge to humanity
But what's interesting is this guy General Beck was
not a fan of the Nazis he wasn't really a fan of Hitler in fact
He was eventually executed by the Nazis because he's one of the guys that coordinated and tried to
Assassnate Hitler he's one of those guys and they figured it out and they assassinated him so
He had some good character
And he had of outstanding military sense he was educated kind of like the traditional
Prussian military education served as a staff officer in World War I
He was he he objected
staunchly to the the
Offence of Germany starting World War II he did not want to go and fight he realized that it was gonna be a problem
And again he resigned in protest actually he resigned in protesting he tried to get a bunch of other people to resign
and
You know they kind of covered it up and made him walk away
Then like I said eventually he tried to kill Hitler he tried to plot the kill Hitler in it and I think it was rumble
Rommel was saying because rummel also participated in the attempt of assassination of
Hitler which is why he got killed
We'll go into that someday on the podcast. I'm sure they came to him and said hey
You can come with us now and you'll die a hero
Well, you have to kill yourself, but you know we won't say anything or we're gonna send you to court and make you a
You know
A public scapegoat for everything that's going wrong in Germany and he chose the former went out in the woods
Said goodbye to his family went out in the woods and killed himself. That's
That's Rommel so back was executed
Um, but like I said his character obviously was a little bit you know what he had some some good character traits stood up for what he believed in and the fact that this book
Trooping through them
The fact that this book
Is
Has been so widely copied the Americans use something based on of the brits you something based the German still use something based on it
Really kind of reveals his leadership knowledge so with that we'll go to the book
The book Trooping through them am I getting better at saying that sounds good to me trooping for them
All right kicks off with the introduction the introduction starts with
The conduct of war is an art depending upon free creative activity
Scientifically grounded is that the way you think of it. I love that definition out of the gate
War is art
Depending on free creative activity scientifically grounded
It makes the highest demands on the personality boom. It makes that makes complete sense to me
Yeah, I know it does
That I think the first time I said that was with Tim Ferriss at some point and I said
I said war is an exercise in creativity. That's what I said and here you have
Where I subconsciously or consciously stole that from or just found that to be true. Yes, or just found that because I'm going to people say oh
Well, you know get to be a robot to be a soldier. It's actually not natural you will you will be destroyed
Next the conduct of war is based on continuous development. Oh
Oh check new means of warfare call forth ever changing employment
Their use must be anticipated their influence must be correctly estimated and quickly utilized
situations in war are of unlimited variety
They change often and suddenly and only rarely are from the first discernible
Incalculable elements are often of great influence the independent will of the enemy is
Pitted against ours
The independent will of the enemy is pitted against ours friction and mistakes are of every day occurrence
So this guy is out of the gate
You know he he knows what he's talking about
Everyone of these things just nails it but what's always interesting of course is that
He's talking about war, but guess what it applies to everything you do in life because guess what everything in life
Is gonna change it's unlimited variety
It's a test of wills there's friction and mistakes that occur every day no matter what you're doing your business with your family no matter what you're doing
You are you are going to experience this
The teaching of the conduct of war cannot be concentrated
Exhaustively in regulations
The principles so
Inunciated must be employed dependent upon the situation
so
Exhaustively you cannot you cannot focus exhaustively on regulations which again as you just pointed out and drew the
That's what people think
That oh you're in the military you just follow orders no
You have to be able to think in fact if all you do is follow regulations you're wrong
Simplicity of conduct
Logically carry through will most surely attain the objective
Yes
war is the severeest test of spiritual and bodily strength in
War character outways intellect
Many stand forth on the field of battle who in peace would remain unnoticed
That's an interesting
Yeah, I didn't see that coming this intro. That's just I think what he's saying is
That that person with the strong will that person with the strong character
Amen, you can be a really smart person and be mentally weak
All day long agreed discipline. Yes, so you can be super smart and when
Things get crazy you're
Shriveling up you're thinking too much right you're shrilling up in the corner
Scared of what might happen where you if you're just a dude that has strong character
Guess what you can step up and win
And how about when if you can know all the right things to do but if you lack the fortitude and discipline
To do it this you're it does like how many doctors know all the right things about health and yet maybe are not in great shape
So they know the things to do but they don't do this as I'm saying kind of thing
Maybe don't see this very often anymore, but like doctors that smoke
Well now I guess you just get doctors that eat crap right horrible, so yes
Same thing so that that strength of character
Doesn't matter you can overwhelm the super smart dude over in the corner
Next
Armies as well as lesser units demand lead and by the way if you can tell my reading is kind of stillted you know because
It's translation so there's some weird words some weird orders of words that don't quite flow
Which is why I was gonna read the the American manual 100-55 first
But no I decided to do this one first because it's more challenging. Well, it's funny though
I when as you've been reading this already I haven't thinking wow this is so concisely written and the words are so carefully chosen
And then I thought wait this is was this no wasn't written in English was written in German yet it's translated so well
Yeah, the American one
I'm gonna do that one probably next, but it's it's even more
Like to the point
So
But you gotta know where you gotta know where connections come from
I agree you gotta all back. Yeah, yeah, so continuing on armies as well as lesser units demand of leaders good
Judgment here's what leaders need good judgment clear thinking and far seeing leaders with independence and decisive
Resolution leaders with perseverance and energy
Leaders not emotionally moved by the varying fortunes of war
Leaders with a high sense of responsibility
Yeah, it's not everything I talk about
They'll decentralize command here. Yeah decentralized command. Oh high sense of responsibility
I think we might call that extreme ownership right
Unemotionally moved
Not emotionally moved by the varying fortunes of war detach
So yeah, this this is just epic it's great
The officer is a leader and a teacher besides his knowledge of men and his sense of justice must be distinguished by his superior knowledge and experience his earnest
His earnestness his self control and high courage. I mean, yeah, this is just so awesome so legit
And it's funny because a lot of times people you know what's what you know they asked this question almost like a rhetorical question like
But what is a leader you know, but what really is leader there you go yeah, we just just read it
Yeah, so listen to that check those things in the mirror when you're trying to be a leader you know check and see
If you're emotionally
Detached check and see if you're earnest
Boom earnest
Check yourself control check your knowledge check your experience all those things
Continue on the example and personal conduct of officers and non-commission officers are of decisive influence on the troops
Wow the officer who in the face of the enemy is cold-blooded decisive and courageous
Inspires his troops onward the officer must likewise find the way to the hearts of his subordinates and gain their trust through the an
Understanding of their feelings and thoughts and through never ceasing care of their needs
I mean relationships how much we talk on this right and it's this dichotomy
I mean
Detached emotionally, but not on emotion. You have to care and if you know the check here. I mean
so ridiculous so ridiculously
Incredible that I guess is not that ridiculous incredible. It's like oh
You put a guy in
2000 and whatever into a combat scenario when he's got a loot lead troops in a tough situation
If they're successful at it, they're gonna come to the same conclusions that someone did in World War I
Which is where this guy was coming this is 89.000 years ago that this was written right and well here's the thing people have been fundamentally the same for
5000 years these are fundamentally true about human nature. Yes
Yes
But never ceasing to care for their needs
When I had
Mook mook on general mookyama
He's the he's the guy that used that word Ross like
Yes, he was one of hackwords company commanders and Vietnam and he was just
You know, I was saying this and I was saying that he's like yeah, you got a care for your men
I don't like check and
That's what he was talking about hackworth once again hackworth known as this you know badass hard-ass guy
And he just hackworth cared about them more than anything. Yeah
Mutual trust is the sureest basis of discipline
In necessity and danger
This is what I've been trying to explain to people for a couple years now is that is that the the word accountability
I
Only have to hold someone accountable if they don't have if we don't have that mutual trust where they understand where I'm coming from and they just go oh
You want the weapons clean cool they'll be clean. I don't have to go and inspect the weapons right
There's a mutual trust there and in that trust is discipline
In all situations every leader must exert without a vision of a responsibility his whole personality
willing and joyful acceptance of responsibility is the distinguishing characteristic of leadership
This the speaking of plagiarism yeah, I just plagiarize this whole thing. I guess right. Yeah, well
This does not mean that the subordinate should seek an arbitrary decision without proper consideration of the whole or that he should not obey
Orders precisely or that he should let his feeling of the greater knowledge take precedence overall
obedience
Independence of action should never be based upon
Contraryness
Independence of action properly used is often the basis of great success
So that's why you have to understand what the command is intent is because you got to be support when you make these decisions that you're making as a subordinate
You got to make sure that they're in line that they're not contrary to what's going on
But you know it just touched on something real briefly we were about this contrarian mindset
There are there are people who just walk around with a contrarian mindset and it doesn't matter what gets said like they are always gonna be like well
Yeah, but you know and
Sometimes that other that outside thought is is a good angle to think about but you but he just said it
He goes real quick. He just goes but you can't just be independent for the sake of being a
Terrier or what a power. He just said that that
Contrary in mindset which as you know, I mean I even open mind and I definitely try and think about things from a different angle
But you're right people that are just being contrary because they just enjoy the friction right of
Of arguing with people. Yeah, I'm not I'm not a big supporter of that
And they end up having no influence because
Because everybody just oh you you're if you they're crying wolf basically right everything they just disagree with every time
So guess what yeah
In spite of technique the worth of men
Is the decisive factor
It's significant is increased in group combat so the way they translate it in the American one. I think they say they value the
I think they might even call it the combat value meaning basically are the dudes hard
Like are the dudes hard that's what they're talking about here the worth the worth of men is the decisive factor
This is an interesting translation here the emptiness of the battlefield demands
Independently thinking and acting fighters who considering each situation are dominated by
Conviction boldly and decisively to act and
Determined to arrive at success
So the emptiness of the battlefield in the American translation
They talk about because modern warfare
Demands that we be separate from each other like as you and I know
If you and I are in patrol we're not close to each other. You know, we're dispersed and we're gonna spread out
So that we're not gonna get killed by one machine gun round or one more to round
So because of that distance that's what they're talking about when he talks about the emptiness
So because of that emptiness on the battlefield you have to have independent think independently thinking and acting fighters
Right because I'm not gonna be there to tell you what to do you're not gonna be there to tell you guys what to do
They're gonna have to independently act. That's the way it's got to be that's something that we call decentralized
Experiment being accustomed to physical accomplishments lack of consideration of self
Will power self confidence and courage qualify a man to master the most difficult situations. There you go
There you go. Let's work on that physical accomplishments. What does that mean? Do athletic things?
You have to be in shape lack of consideration of self boom
You're not important will power. Yes
Discipline self confidence and courage qualified man to master the most difficult situations
The worth of leaders in men determined the battle worth of the troops
Which is supplemented by the possession care and maintenance of arms and equipment
Superior battle worth can equalize numerical inferiority
So if you're just hard core fighters it doesn't matter right how many people the enemies got because we're gonna get
self
The higher the battle worth the more vigorous and versatile
can war be executed
Superior leadership
and
Superior troop battle readiness are reliable portence of victory
The leaders must live with their troops participate in their dangers their wants their joys their sorrows
Only in this way can they estimate the battle worth and the requirements of the troops
Sitting around in the ivy tower
That's interesting though because we do have a thing in this military about the separation to a certain degree
Right this is saying and so there's gonna be a bounce there too right. I mean, yeah, but you can't be in the ivory tower and totally
Disassociate people like who's that guy?
No, I just get orders for that guy battle field the loophoness
You know you gotta actually get out of the hum v
And go see what's going on. That's what you got it. Yeah. Yeah. Nope. Yeah
Man is not responsible for himself alone
But also for his comrades
He you can do more who has greater capacity of accomplishment must instruct the inexperienced and weaker
From such conduct the feeling of real comradeship develops which is just as important between the leaders and the men as between the men themselves
troops only superficially and not through long training and experience well together
More easily fail under severe conditions and unexpected crisis
So if you're only superficially and you haven't gone through long training and you haven't been well together
When the hard times come you ain't gonna make it and that's really when people ask me about
You know, how do you build the team and how do you develop the bonds and team you do hard stuff together?
That's right. You do hard stuff and when we work with companies now companies that made it through
the downturn of
2007 2008 because most a lot of companies didn't make it but the companies that there was
Refer back to those experiences like you know, that's what bonded them together right
Same thing with the military. You know you go through boot camp. What is that? It's a hard experience. You bond with all these people
And you know when you meet someone else in the military they went through an atominum
And they went through boot camp or Officer Canada at school or whatever some sort of hard kind of indoctrination
Then you go to airborne school
Thing where you're all gonna overcome your fears of jumping out of airplanes or whatever
Then you go to some kind of special operation school same thing you're just you're just putting people through harder and harder
Things to get them tighter and tighter and more more bonded together
So they can overcome these adversities when they come their way
Therefore
Before the outbreak of war the development and maintenance of steadiness and discipline in the troops as well as their training is of decisive importance
Every commander is enjoying immediately to intervene with all powers that is disposal against any relaxation of discipline
Against excesses plundering panic and other damaging influence
Gotta get the game if you that stuff going on
Mm-hmm discipline is fundamental in an army it's strict maintenance a benefit to all
No big deal just discipline
So so it's interesting it's touched on a few things here which I think you know
We get that because it's military mixed total sense and and it
Talk about it when you want but there's you know people I think struggle with how do you do that in business today?
Well, you know HR and how do I can possibly you have to still find a way to do that appropriately because
HR doesn't have anything to do with having discipline process procedure
You know no, no, I'm talking about getting in and knowing what's going on with your people and in their life and
And doing hard things together, you know because I think what people call you got to show up on time do this part of your job
And so how do you how do you actually deepen those bonds in a company?
You got to find ways to put people through difficult things together through training
Find events to do that builds that camaraderie that gets them through a hard time that strengthens the bonds of those relationships
I see good companies good leaders do it in companies where they just set really tough goals that are
Very hard but achievable whether it's a production goal whether it's a sales goal whether it's
Project goal and people have to really turn and burn to get it done. Yeah, and when they get it done
They have to force to work hard together. They're first to go to the extreme a little bit to work extra hours to
Figure things out to strengthen their relationships and when they get done to everyone you know, and it's stressful
And then they get done and everyone's kind of holding their head up a little bit higher
It's right a little bit tighter. So it's not even it doesn't even necessarily have to be that you have to
Allocate separate training to do this. You go hey guys here's this project. It's doing 30 days
We're gonna deliver it in 24 days. I ran the numbers. I looked at the schedule
We can do it who's in and everyone goes yeah, we're in and then everyone buckles down and they overcame
They achieve something that's what they do so that's what that's how you
That's how you bring that build that bond between people and strengthen teams by doing hard stuff set goals on normal things
Because think about it when I come in and go
Hey guys, we got this project do it's doing 30 days
Could take a little bit longer though. I don't know
Everyone know who gets fired up to hear that right? No one no one who goes. Oh cool. I'm gonna take an extra
Half hour for lunch every day if that's that's no people don't even want to do that
Like people might think they want to do that people might think they want to do that, but they don't want to do that
No, they don't want to do that
They don't want to do that they want to get after it and that's our job as leaders is to set that bar and to set it even a little bit higher
And then and then inspire and encourage and bring everybody along to try and get to that next level further than what they've
Wait wait oh 24 days. Yeah, all right. Okay, boss. What am I going to do? Yeah, what am I going to do? Just here
Wait a second. You really think this is possible. Yes, I do. Yeah, I do
I do know what we're gonna make the whole world
We're gonna make everyone at this company look at us and say dang they did that in 24 days
I guess what some other teams is gonna do. I know we can do it 23. That's right. I think we think yeah, I know
I know we get some good competition going so that's awesome. That's what you have to do that's how you build teams
Stress build teams now if you have a team that's slightly fractured guess what that stress will do break it apart
Yeah, it's gonna find those weak. Yes, right so there's a balance. Oh, there's also a balance between
Hey, you can set goals. Hey, there's a project that's doing 30 days. We're gonna do it in 15
It's unrealistic everyone just looks at it goes yeah, Jochka's an idiot. You understand understood he's in the ivory tower
doesn't even know what it takes to get this done so balance balance there 100%
Continuing along back to the book the strength of the troops must be able to meet the highest demands in decisive moments
He who unnecessarily fatigues the troops jeopardizes success. Oh, oh, there you go
The strength employed in battle must stand in proportion to the objective desired
Unreliable demands prejudice the trust in the leaders and shake the spirit of the troops again. This is a cry wolf situation
We got to get this done in 15 days
It's like and that's my you know the first time everyone goes okay, and then maybe we get it done in 15 days
And then people look up what what we're doing for the next 15 days. We're gonna
I'm gonna do more you know and you eventually just burn everyone out right so there's a balance that
Back to the book from the youngest soldier
On up the employment of every spiritual and bodily power is demanded to the utmost
Only in such conduct is the full power of accomplishments of the troops
Achieved so do men develop and maintain their courage and powers of decision in hours of stress and carry forward with them
To greater deeds their weaker comrades
So you can actually pass on your strength to the people around you in moments of stress. Absolutely if you're strong
Does that you know like when people quit in Buds?
I got I like took their
Power it's so hard to say that man. I can't I was literally about some people
Some people go the other way right some people they see someone quit and they're like oh
Dude if he's quit, no I'm quitting that's right. I can't even relate. Yeah, I mean I mean I thought I saw it happen
And not from some dude. I'm not like some big you know
There's not from to some ecotistical perspective. I say I can't really I just I'm not wired like that I
I'm wired like call a corny, but you know high-landered like
You know how you would absorb like the strength of like that's kind of kind of like but like
You know when a guy would quit I have somehow I felt like I absorbed his what was left of his power and it actually
It more like it inspired me it's it inspired me to keep going the fact that I could keep going and that guy couldn't
It just I was like okay, you know, I mean
It gave me more purpose. Yeah, that's why
You just got to stay hard man
You know
People are starting to because you're you're if other people start to see you like cracking and
There are your troops. They're gonna be like oh no, right? This is a bad sign
Yeah, because jocos breaking down. This is not good
Yeah, because we also are like well that will never happen if we jocos so jocco don't ever get
Now don't worry
If you took a knee we wouldn't we wouldn't let you or we would just step in for you. Yeah
But I don't see that happening not happening
Here this is what you I was actually gonna jump right here because when we started this thing off you you talked about this a little bit
The first demand in war is decisive action
So like you were saying like hey you can be the smartest person with a great plan
But if you can't do it if you can't act on it
Everyone the highest commander and most junior soldier must be aware that omissions and
And neglects incriminate him more severely than the mistake of choice
So if you decide not to act you are a worse
Criminal yeah in the world I agree then someone that just makes a bad decision bad judgment
But moves I just disappeared for second back to Ramadi and and thought of those exact that exactly happening like in real life like
Like in those moments when there is things going on you act and you can maneuver in
Aggressively solve a problem even if you make a small mistake. It's it's the default aggressive
Yes, right. It's the complacency while I sit back and our dick kind of went away
I wish that no, I just steamed all this you got to make a call now
Obviously
Having to point this stuff all the time, but it's the truth
If you just jump and make rash decisions without thinking about them that's also stupid
You have to let things develop but this idea of in action
I mean it is the worst that's why what are what are people say about
Inaction is a decision so like no decision is the bad decision right?
No decision is the worst decision no decision is a decision first of all yeah no decision is a decision
And
It might be the worst decision sometimes no decision while I watch things develop
You might be the right call but let's be clear no decision is a decision
What I've been trying to teach people lately
Is like a standard operating procedure for when you don't know what to do
Here's the standard operating procedure for when you don't know what to do you
Look at what the situation where you take you did that you take a step back you look at what's unfolding
Then you make the smallest
Decision in the area that you guess is the right direction to move
And then you assess what that did so you don't just jump off and flank left because you thought that was the right call
No you go okay
Hey guys start pushing left okay, so they start moving a little bit. Do they meet major resistance?
No, okay cool continue with a flank
You don't just go flank left now they run over there now they're getting flanked and it's a bad situation
So
That's the thing you you make a small decision
The smallest possible decision that you can but you make a decision
You start moving in the direction that you think is correct assess yes
Move yes
assess
Yeah, you get an in-loop is what you're gonna do. You're gonna end up in a little in-loop
But people get afraid of making a big decision
Now sometimes you have to make a big ball decision of course, but people get afraid of
Making that they can't see they only want to go 100% in right they don't see that they can go 8%
Yeah, so 8% in
Is that the last muster so I think it was at the last muster someone asked me something about this
But you know when you say hey we want to go explore this new market area
Let's let's buy three buildings in that market area and see where it happens. No
That's not what you do first do market research
Then maybe you put a couple key asks up on the street corner and see there's any interest
I'll leave some space
You know like that's what you do
That's the kind of mentality you can have you don't need to just be paralyzed by the fact that it's this giant you break it down into some smaller decisions
It would have decision making is what I call it and to be clear this is in the I don't know what to do right now
I'm in an unknown position right I mean because
You know we're not talking about sheepishly going in directions here. We're talking about no no what to do here
So I will
Go in the direction that I believe to be the best, but I'm gonna take a small decision as I can
I don't want to take too much ground in the right could it could be the wrong direction
It would be the wrong direction. I'm gonna go the direction that I think is right
But in the smallest of a decision that I can make in that direction and then I'm gonna reassess yes and guess what if it's the wrong decision
Now you know that if it's the wrong direction you just you hit a wall there now you just figured that out
Where when you made no decision you still you don't you still know which way to go that's right
360 degrees so when I say hey we're gonna go 90 degrees cool we take a step and we realize there's mass of resistance
They're cool we're gonna go 180 degrees oh okay right on you know it's you know it's a you know
It's a really good like modern day example of that you're even sitting like using your map like like Google maps or whatever
And if you're not moving in a direction it sometimes doesn't know which direction you're going in
Oh, so arrow just kind of
It's like a step out of a hotel. I'm like
Which one must supposed to go here dang it the thing is doesn't even know which one so
All right, you know I think it's that direction is where it's supposed to go so I start walking
Yeah, as soon as I take 10 steps the map the arrow or ants itself and it's like yeah, you're going the right way
Sometimes I don't ask you oh you know you went the wrong way
It is like oh okay cool I'll turn around and go back together
Or you could have stood there in the door of the hotel blocking the blocking the traffic and
Staring at that compass rotate and it's not going anywhere that is exactly what happens and so that's why you you make a small decision
You didn't you didn't hail a cab and get it
Start driving that way sprinting down the road. It's 10 steps. Yeah, that's the way it works
All right
Can to in by the way I always have to say this why I'm not covering this whole book this book is online PDF
You can download it. It's free
I'm not reading the whole thing
There's a bunch of like granularly
Tactical things inside that were not going to cover but we're covering the big stuff the stuff that's applicable to every
Thing that we do next section section two it's a second call leadership
So here we go great successes presumed boldness and daring
Proceeded by good judgment
Check we never have at our disposal all the desire forces for decisive action
The news flash you're not going to have everything you want all the time. It's not happening
He who will be secure everywhere or who fixes forces in secondary tasks
Acts contrary to the fundamental task
So if you're a trying to do too many things at the same time we call that prioritize next
You if you got a button if you're trying to do all these secondary tasks you're not focusing on the main one you're gonna get crushed
and if you're so
dang
Rooted in your situation
If you're secure everywhere
If you're secure everywhere you're not gonna make any progress
Yeah, man, that's
Hunker down. Yeah, I'm secure. I'm safe hunker down when you're hunkering down the enemies maneuvering
That's what's happening
The weaker force through speed mobility great march accomplishments
Utilization of darkness and the terrain to the fullest surprise and deception
Can be the stronger at the decisive area. So boom that's jujitsu by the way
And special forces and everything we do to leverage our numerically
smaller force. Yeah
Time and space must be correctly estimated
Favorable situations quickly recognized and decisively exploited every advantage over the enemy
Increases our own freedom of action. And yeah
That's not just special forces not just special operations. It's every
Mediterranean. They all do this
If they're good
Repidity of action in the displacement of troops can be greatly can be assisted greatly or retarded by the roads and streets
Nets and by the terrain conditions
The season the weather the condition of the troops are also of influence
The duration of strategic and tactical operations
Cannot always be first seen you don't know how long something's going to last
Successful engagements often precedes slowly often the success of today's battle is first recognized tomorrow
It's an interesting one
Surprise of the enemy is a decisive factor in success actions based on surprises are only of great success when we do not permit the enemy to take adequate countermeasures
So
You can you got to follow up. That's where you got to follow up
That's why in
Striking you got to throw combination you can't just throw one punch you got to stinging them with the jab and then you got to hand them with the straight and then you got to get coming with the hook
That's what you got to do you know it's interesting the
Don't want about
Often this success of today's battle is first recognized tomorrow
What's interesting about that one I don't know if you remember this because I don't know you might not have been
I might not have engaged you at this level, but when we first started doing sniper overwatches and Ramadi and
I was getting some questions from off the chain of command
They were hey look what you know this is after a couple weeks
It was hey you know we get that you're killing some people, but there's no metrics like there's the
You've said you shot three iED in places iEDs have not gone down
Like the and iED places have not gone down and
Luckily I had read the the one oh the one is it the one tech 24 the counter insurgency manual
And I had learned from that manual that the average counter insurgency takes seven years
So I replied back to the chain of command and said hey just kind of FYI
We're fighting a counter insurgency
The average counter insurgency takes
takes seven years to achieve victory
We've been doing this for two and a half weeks. Can I get a little more time to see some metrics on it?
So and that's true and actually Colonel McFarlin
This was a battle that he had to fight because
Here you are you know it's a metrics based people that are looking at things from a metrics based level right
They're saying okay in Ramadi there's 30 enemy attacks a day and all of a sudden
McFarlin rolls in and starts this counter insurgency and the enemy attacks
Go up or yeah and they go up a lot and so his chain of commands look at that
What are you doing right what are you doing the enemy attacks are gonna be worse your things not working and he has to explain to them
You know why the enemy attacks are going up because we are actually taking ground from them and they're fighting
Yeah, and we're killing them, but this is what's gonna happen
So the initial metrics are the reverse of what you want and that's the way it is that's what so these
The success of the success of a battle is not always visible today
You have to look at the long-term effects. Well, we went into the Hornets nest. I mean, it's like hey, you know
What my kid gets stung by this be like you know once a year
Well, we're gonna go in and get rid of the bees nest all right. Well, we go in there. We got you guys got stung like 20 times
Yeah, because we went in and we actually are destroying the Hornets nest so they're stinging us now even more. That's why it went up and when we're done
Though they're not gonna sting us at all, but for now the numbers went up. That's exactly what happened. What do you want to know like that?
We used to go after the Hornets nest. It's a sort of a test of uh, you know when you're eight years old
It was it's always a test of of
Of courage basically because you're gonna go in there with a stick
Like that they have to see if you can get it to fall down and you know, it's like playing Pinata
You don't get it on the first shot. It can take some viewers so you whack it and then you run and those things come after you
Right, but then so all of a sudden this things go on and me attacks go up. Yeah, you get in stung like when you go in and hit a Hornets nest with a with a stick
You're getting stung
Pretty much that's what's gonna happen
All right, back to the book the enemy will likewise endeavor to make use of surprise our conduct must take this in a
Consideration the knowledge of hostile leadership and war principles can influence the decision and aid our battle conduct
But it must never lead to preconceptions. Oh, that's good, isn't it like we know what the enemy's gonna do
But we know really know what that's right. Hey, they're gonna use the laws of combat, but we got a
Remember that they might they might step outside the bounds of the laws of combat
Those conditions which facilitate the conduct of war in our land make it difficult make it more difficult in foreign lands
Require consideration. Yeah, it's much easier on your own grant. We've learned that over and over again
In strany us combat troops are soon worn out and quickly used up
The forces must receive timely reinforcements in leaders men animals battle needs and
War materials of all kinds
Boys are gonna get worn out after a while the mission and the situation form the basis of action
The mission and the situation form the basis of action the mission designates the objective to be a chain to be attained
The leader must never forget his mission a mission which indicates several tasks easily
Deverts from the main exit objective so once again prioritize next year
If you've got a bunch of different things you're not gonna achieve the main objective
At a situation recently
Where people were wearing some of their teammates out and was talking to this company about how to do this and
I said the mission is number one that's our mission mission is number one, but the mission requires people and so you have to take care of your people
And you have to balance their you know how how tired they are whether they're being replenished
But again always in balance, but the mission is number one
But it takes the people and the team to accomplish the mission. So if you wear your team out
Then you got nobody left even accomplish the mission. That's so that's the dichotomy you talk about that in the dichotomy leadership
I mean if you if
If all your focus on is the mission your men will be either used up destroyed. They won't trust you anymore. It'll be a disaster
so your men
your people have to come first
And at the same time the dichotomy is if you do nothing but care about your people then guess what
You won't have anyone you you want to accomplish the mission which by the way
Hurts your people because if you're in the business world and you're trying to push your people to drive production or or do their job at a faster pace
Great
Then you burn them out and they leave and also in the company folds or the opposite okay guys
You know take your time. We guess what now we don't get anything done and the company folds so what you have to do is you have to balance
obscurity of the situation is the rule
Rule
Seldom will one have exact information of the enemy clarification of hostile situation is is a self evident demand
However to wait intense set intense situations for information is seldom a token of strong leadership
Often of weakness so look you're not gonna know everything. It's not gonna happen
You have to make decisions that's what you got to do otherwise sign a weakness
They edited me on billions oh yes, they they there was one little section where I was in the show billions and there was one little sections where where they showed
Dollar bill
Getting like a massage or something like that and I was looking at him when I just go weak
But I did make the cut
Next the decision arises from the mission and the situation the decision arises from the mission and the situation
Should the mission no longer suffice as the fundamental of conduct or if it is changed by events the decisions
The decision must take these considerations into account
He who changes his mission or does not execute the one given must report his actions at once and assume all
Responsibility for the consequences he must always keep in mind the whole situation so that's saying it's wrong
That's right. Yeah, they're not saying it's wrong. Somebody's gonna be like hey, Andrew wanted me to go and take this building and the building is
untenable the the enemy's too strong. I
Need you know I make the decision. I'm not gonna take that building. We need to drop a bomb. We need to do something else
I just that's fine, but I need to tell you and I need to keep the whole picture in mind because if that building was
Strati-jiggly important for what we're trying to accomplish
Well then maybe I have to take more sacrifices than I thought to take the building down
The the decision must depict a clear objective aimed at with the whole force
The strong will of the commander must support it often the stronger will gains success
Without very good reasons the decision once made should not be abandoned. Okay, so this is
Again critical without without a without very good reasons a decision once made should not be abandoned
And then it says however in the vicissitudes of war and
In flexible maintenance of the original decision may lead to great mistakes
Timely recognition of the conditions and the time which call for a new decision is an attribution of the art of
Leadership. Yeah, don't stick to the one plan that you came up with
Doesn't work does not work in change plants you really have my I work for some hard-headed people and the plan would be completely falling apart
And they're riding that thing in the ground
They're just taking that they all know they think a real ownership of that real ownership of that
They're not gonna let it go. They're gonna be right
The commander must permit freedom of action to his subordinates in so far that this does not endanger the whole scheme
He must not surrender to them those decisions for which he alone is responsible. So freedom of movement. What does that mean?
That means decentralized command
The attack is launched in order to defeat the enemy
The attacker has the initiative
Superiority of leadership and of troops show the best advantage in the attack success does not always come
To superiority of numbers so go on the offense. I say that all the time go on the offense now
Is this 100% of time no but you you have you're you're just that much better off when you're on offense
You have surprise you have initiative you have the people on their heels
It's amazing that we were able to take down the
The island like the island campaign in World War II
Going into those heavily fortified where the Japanese imperial military had been digging in
for three four five years yeah preparing those islands for to defend against assaults
United States Marine Corps coming get some
Seriously now you guys say Marine Corps and of course the Nihai the Army but dang
Just unbelievable
That they were able to that's that's going on offense. That's right. So momentum. Yeah. We're going on offense. Oh
You've been digging in oh you built a miles long tunnel system to defend the silent cool watch this
We're coming in we got naval gunfire
We got course ares we got flame thrower's
And we're coming and obviously at great sacrifice
But being on the offense
Being on the offense is a weapon in its own right. I'm great notice this in strategic too like when you're on offense
You're you're you have the edge you know you're you're one step ahead when you when you're on defense
You're one step behind and it's not fun and if you're defending for too long
Eventually you will get caught you will if you're on defense defense defense defense defense defense defense defense defense
Eventually you will get caught eventually
You have to at some point switch yeah and get on offense. I don't know who said it
It maybe it's even cliche at this in these days, but you know the best defense is a good offense
So you're on defense so you need to convert that to an offense so somebody attacks you you're on defense
The best defense is a good offense. So it's my deep yeah, yeah, so my I'm a somebody attacks me first
I'm on defense my best defense to that is to
Return with an offense
Yeah, you know what's interesting is a time when this is different is this is nothing
I was talking about if the master is
If there's if we're arguing about something
Mm-hmm
If my if I go with that theory the best defense is a good offense and you start to try and tell me something
That's not jumping and cut you off and I'm like no we do like this. That's actually wrong
I agree with you and that's interesting right interesting because
And I see that all the time because leaders
People end up in leadership position their personality kind of drives them to be
Sort of
Spoken and speak up and all those things when the reality is the the
More senior you get in leadership position the more you should actually use this this the years, you know
That what I said at the master was
98%
Use your ears 2% use your mouth. Mm-hmm. That's where you end up so this idea that
That you know being on offense is the best way well when it comes to
Discussions
You should gather some intel before you act and listen to one other people have to say
Check
The possibility that an attack may miscarriage should never permit
The federing of energetic leadership from the first. Yes, we may lose doesn't matter. We're gonna get some
Pursuit reaps the fruits of victory. It strives to destroy the enemy which destruction was not possible in the preceding engagement
Only a through-going relentless pursuit
Which prevents the enemy from gaining time to rest and recuperate saves ourselves
Sacrifices necessitated if we permit the enemy force another decisive engagement. No when you get them on the ropes go
Put them all the way to the river and then toss their bodies in the river. It's one of the ones we run on here
The defense waits for the opponent the defender seeks to prescribe the battle terrain that's important
Right if you're on defense you want to bring people into gear arena right the
Defense is chosen when our own inferiority permits no other choice or if for other reasons
It appears advantageous. I was just reading a note from a friend of mine
A team guy who's who's grandfather was in World War II still life gonna get him on the podcast and
When he did the island campaign
And then went into like Japan surrender after the bombs and the Japanese were told on your gun in placements put a white flag
Like so Americans were sailing in like the wars over sailing in I think it was into like
I don't use it is into some big port Japan and
When he was sailing in there was just white flags everywhere
Everywhere and he was looking around he said it he said it literally looked like snow
Wow there were so many weapons and placements and he just said I knew at that point that those atomic bombs
Saved hundreds of thousands of Americans that would have had to go in there and fight until the end
So the advantage of the defender as a defender you want to pull people into your
Into your zone to where you know what the Russians do right I analyzed terrain
Yeah, channelized terrain perfect, but the Russians were the Russians do. Oh, yeah, you want to fight us cool
Come on come a little bit further come a little bit further come a little bit further. What is it? It's September come a little bit further
Right always it's October come just a little bit further. It's November welcome to Russia
Negative 48 degrees. Hope you brought your words. Hope you brought your warmies
Uh
The defense is chosen when our own inferiority permits no other choice
Or if for other reasons it appears advantage
So if you can be an offense, but if you have to you go in defense
Breaking off an engagement has the purpose of terminating the battle or giving up the former position in order
Continue the engagement at a more favorable position
In the ladder
Instance delaying action is often employed. So yes, sometimes you have to retreat
The retreat intends to avoid further combat the engagement must for this purpose be terminated and the withdrawal of the troops be protected
The changing fortunes of battle demand often the passing from one type of engagement to another
So sometimes you've got to
Attach and sometimes you've got to defend that's what's gonna happen. That's the reality and Hitler was not
Hitler got to this point as the war went on where he actually didn't understand that which is why it's the oligrod
They left those guys and they did plenty of opportunities to retreat no no hold the line
I did that I covered the book called Stalin grad from that from the Nazi perspective and
And
Those guys were
Surrounded
They were listening to the radio and Hitler was making speeches
Talking about the brave sacrifices of them in Stalingrad they weren't even dead yet
Like he was he was saying hey look they're surrounded but they fought to the end. They're still there. They were still there. Wow
Talk about coward talk about being in your ivory tower
He left those guys to die surrounded
Delaying action avoids the decision
It will gain time keep the enemy busy and deceived so delaying action. Let's let's let's let's let things develop a little bit more
During the course of the battle the commander influences the action
most strongly by the concentration and increase of fire and through the employment of his reserve
Distribution location and employment of the reserve
Require careful consideration mobility increases the possibility
For their employment always have a little bit in the tank
You know always got to have a little bit in tank
Everybody says that you know it's interesting about delaying. We're talking about like like the Russian so we're a little bit further and
And going on in this next couple of sentences you feel whether it's an enemy whether it's a competitor
You know when they're going on the attack they're also
Expending considerable resources absolutely right so so if you can kind of think about it
Judges who match a guy's on the attack and you're you're in the guard and you're kind of in a defensive position
Right, you're kind of letting them use his energy
Right, so let them keep using that energy use that energy in the troops are expanding it takes effort
Logistical support to keep pushing pushing pushing and you're spreading further and further away from
You know home base where you got all your support and then
When they're spread and they've expanded their resources and they're down to just maybe the last of their fuel in their food
No, it boom then you launch your counter attack
Yeah, so and speaking of
We know what I brought up before about when you're I don't want to use the term arguing
But when you're discussing something from a leadership perspective you're in a group you're in a meeting
exact same situation let the other people talk and express their viewpoints because every time they express their viewpoint
you have an opportunity to
to listen to it to
to understand it to hear someone else make a counter to it and hear their counter to the counter
So you're getting all this information
You're receiving all this information you haven't you haven't given up any you haven't used any bullets
You haven't used any magazines you haven't you you've got everything and you're just observing I mean it's
I think it was it's either a dick winners or but they wrote hey when when I let someone talk
I know everything that they know and I I know everything that I know it's like well there you go
Keep talking because I'm gonna know everything that you know and I'm gonna know everything that I know and you know how you know how when you
When you do something anything for the second time it's like
Expo it's not twice as easy it's not twice as easy or it's it's
exponentially more easy to make a decision so when you go into a room for the first time and there's a guy in the corner
You don't know what to do with your weapon like it's hard and then you go into that room again
Or there's there's whatever there's like a couch in an obstacle whatever and you gotta do you gotta you gotta make a decision
The first time you go in there
You see a new guy going in there the first the very first time he's ever done
E jammed up and everything's the disaster
He does it one time, you know, he looks at it and go okay, you step out due to again. He's exponentially better at doing it
so when we're having a discussion and
I get to listen and listen and listen and listen and listen and hear other people give points and counter points around a table
And you sit there and just listen and go okay, and you can assemble it all you can assemble the the strongest facts
You can identify the biggest weaknesses and then when you finally like you said you've now
You've now everyone has expanded all their ammunition, but you you have a full magazine
You're magazine to if I've actually been filled up with more rounds because everyone else is expressing
Their their points and counter points. So you just sit there and listen and then but by the end here we go
Here's the plan and everyone goes dang jockels smart
How did you do that? I just shot my mouth and listen
All right going back to the book this next section communications
Information reports
Situation maps so
If you think about it what leadership is is actually just
Communicating with other human beings. That's actually what it is great
You you have to be able to communicate what it is that you need to get done
to other people. That's what it is. So how does that work?
The reports and information of the enemy form one of the most important foundations of the estimate of the situation
The decision and its execution you got to know what's going on and it here
It talks about air and ground reconnaissance it talks about continual observation it talks about information secured through
Special means and I'm sure they're talking about
Human resources you know a
Human human intelligence so spies or whatever
That's not human resources
It's a different kind of story
Human resources
And then it says from the whole
Whole
From the whole of all these different things the commanders able to draw correct conclusions
Apparently unimportant details in connection with other reports have
Considerable worth and this is something that I always told us in the military when you come back from an operation at your debrief you say like well
I remember this specific thing where did you guys find
Because we my first deployment we would be looking for
Weapons bill you know
Munitions or something anything that they could be using to build ideas right and
The question was always where did you find it?
Where did you find it and I first I was like well we found in the bedroom, but where?
Because is it is it inconceivable to think that if you and I were bad guys and I said hey man
I'm keeping my stuff
Taped up under my table when the but when the good guys coming they never find it there. Oh, okay cool
So I'll do the same thing and we I'm going this from an actual example we found
Dead cord taped up underneath
A Mujia Dean fighters table in his house and so this is like I was like oh that that's when it clicked to me
Oh
Well
We should tell everyone that because they probably tell everyone right because that's a pretty good place to hide
You know tables well this
Tables have like legs, but then they've got things that the legs attached to
So if you just look glance under it and it's up under there
It's kind of hard to see right so maybe someone says hey this where I've been hiding it
They've searched my house three times haven't found it. We'll find it now
So we flip things over. That's why we break it now
So
It continues on every report and the best information are of little or no value when they reach to late
Into the command for which they're intended. So yeah if you don't pass information timely
Doesn't make any difference all commanders are enjoying as early and to the greatest extent possible to inform
The higher commander of the situation into transmit all important information
Yes
The one making a report must express himself clearly and positively. He must differentiate between what he has seen
What another has noted or stated and what is presumed
The source of the information must be stated suspicions must have bases
Those are big yeah, I've
You've got you've got to pay attention to those things. There's a big difference and that's why we use appears to be right right
That's one of the biggest ones that they teach us is you don't say
Hey has an AK47 or hey he's got a weapon if you can't confirm 100% that that guy legitimately has a weapon because it's a big difference between
Oh, looks like there's something under his dish dasha, right. Oh, it looks like he's looks like he's got a chess rig underneath his dish dasha
That's a lot different than he's wearing a chest rig right and he's got an AK47
So it's always appears to be unless you can confirm it and there's a win. I did the mili masqueron here that
Break down of intelligence
of it going from
Like the division level which was hey this is a
I think they use the word
The original word was like a suspected VC oh no it was like possible possible VC
Coordination point
Went from there down to like the brigade level then it turned into like from from possible to suspected
Just a little bit of a different word yep, yep, then from brigade to battalion it was like
Likely and it went all the way down when those guys when those when that Charlie company got those words
It was this is a VC stronghold not only was it that this is a VC stronghold this civilians are no longer there
The civilians there's no civilians there and what they had heard was on Wednesdays they go to some market this the
The the the women and children go to this market
And maybe they did
But it wasn't like I mean does every single person in your neighborhood go and shop on the same day at the same time?
No, is there hey Wednesday they got a Wednesday they got specials at the grocery store cool a bunch of people going out there not everyone right but the report that they got was
There's no friendlies in this village all VC
Wow and so as that escalated you know you tell that to a 18 year old trooper
This is an enemy village and guess what they did they went in there and they killed they murdered everyone so
That's why you have to pay attention those and I had this happen to me too. We we did an op on my first deployment
We got a
Piece overhead imagery and on that piece of overhead imagery there was a red axe on one of the buildings and all's like cool
I mean this is early in my deployment. I'm like oh that's for the bad guys our cool we'll go get them
We went out we hit this building and
We cleared it you know blew the door off the hinges go in there start SSE while we're doing SSE
our turps are interrogating or what's the tactical questionings?
We don't do interrogation but do intact the questioning of the people the people are like oh no
That's not me the person you're looking for is three doors down and
And so we went hit it and we actually got the bad guy
Well, when I got back I was I was pissed because I'm thinking a like we wrecked this person's house now
You know, that's that's horrible. That's not good for our strategic vision
What we're trying to get done here the guy the enemy the real bad guy could have escaped and so I asked the question
I said who drew this who put this red axe on this building?
Yeah, who
Like what was it? Who and I actually said yeah, yeah, who and why and as I dug down into it
they had they had
through various intelligence sources
narrowed it down to like
this one area and
this one area the center of that circle was the building with the red axe on it
So that's my fault right that's my fault because I should have said okay
So from then on it was my deal to say who put this red axe on why it? What does that mean?
What does it mean? Yeah, I mean that red axe implied at the time that like that was the target house as opposed to
He there's the center of the ring and he could be anywhere in it. You would have it plan that mission
There's there's there's five houses in this ring and it's one of them. We would have cordoned off the whole area
And if you you can think about all the different ways that intel can come in and every different type of intel that you could have
Could come up with you know hey here's here's the probable chances, you know it's gonna be one of these houses
So that was a big lesson learned for me and you know if your people people to know when we would make a mistake like that
We would obviously we what we did is we carried money we carried money and we'd pay them for the damages that we caused and and we would more than
More than pay for the damages that we caused it was kind of a good deal to get your door
Block off
No, I mean the thing is yeah, we gave him a good chunk of money and you know it was all documented
We had a count for all that I mean I remember going with the logistics of that but but but
Nonetheless, I mean it's still terrifying those people who hadn't done anything wrong
I was so didn't have their door blown off when trying to know it's absolutely horrible. Yeah, the money doesn't the money
He doesn't it's a strategic loss. It's a strategic loss. Yeah, so that's why I was so pissed right this happened
And that's why I was pissed at myself because I accepted that until as
What we were just talking about hey cool there's the red X yeah, I must be the bad guy. Yeah, let's go hit that house
so many examples in life and in business on that too people say something and you're like
Well wait, did they say they they say they weren't gonna be there or did they say they didn't think they could be like
I mean there's just so many conversations that you can have about whether it's marketing in your business
Whether there's something we doing with your family. He just clarified for a second. He really wait
What did they really say did they actually say this?
One of them didn't really say that oh, okay
totally changed it in it's in that moment. Yeah, it's a legend and that's in those moments as a leader
It's okay well hold on before we actually go and pull the trigger on this
Actually in case of combat we're figuratively right before we start marching let's just clarify real quick before we go push it off in this direction
oh, yeah the the
Rumor mill the gossip the he said she said
Those things are just awful and as a leader you have to take a step back you can't let your emotions get a hold
Being someone says oh, he said he didn't want to come to this thing
Wait, oh really?
Didn't want to come you didn't want to come or he
His father's sick. Yeah, it's got a parent teacher conference and his kids really struggling in school right now
So he he just he can't be there. Oh, well, that's a totally different story. Totally different story check
Next one
Battle itself provides the most reliable means of estimating the enemy boom
What's the confirmation? Yeah, that's that's just legit. That's the truth
Which means sometimes you got to take some risk got to take some calculated risk and figure out what's going on
All of this is just is talking about preparing you know mindset the troops the tactics the techniques
Logistics all of that, but now to now to okay
sooner or later battles going to happen. That was a tough one in Ramadi
They so there would be little checkpoints out in town and
The checkpoints would be run by Americans and
Then eventually there'd be run by half Americans and half Iraqis and at some point it was okay
Iraqis are going to have to run this checkpoint by themselves
And that was a huge risk every time to see if they could pull it off
Then the first several times it was not successful and
We would turn over the
Checkpoints to the Iraqis and there was there was I think three of them got over run. Oh, yeah
Over run yeah and just mass casualties
But that's what we what that's a risk that the commander had to take you know that's a risk
Chromic frontal and at the time had to take you had to say okay we've trained them
We've we've pushed them they've been out there we've done the right seat left seat
We need to see if they can maintain and we need to see what the enemy's gonna do and so
The first few times it got tried it was a horrific and
And eventually we did get the level of violence down and we did get the Iraqis all just trained up enough that they could handle it
But it took some we had to do what we're talking about right here battle itself provides most reliable
Means of estimating enemies sometimes you got to take that risk it's awful
Continuing on this next little section
Called estimate of it's called estimate of situation period decision period
Ha
An estimate of the situation provides it's pre-seeds each decision it demands rapid fought simple logical consideration of the essential details only
Our mission is the basis we proceed from it and determine what it prescribes and how we can best accomplish it
Rapid fought simple logical
You wouldn't think that you would need to tell people in the military and business in the world that hey when you're gonna make a decision
You need to think simple and logical right how often do I see people making decisions that are not simple right
And the logical emotional yeah just emotional decision making here this is why the and you know
That general back had seen this over and over again in order to get to a point where he's making it
Evident in this book that you need to be logical about your decision making process that would be like if you if you were to sit there and talk to
Hey, listen guys here's the most important thing. I want to start off with about your decision making process
Make sure it's logical
You get laughed out of the room. We'll know kidding. Okay. Let's see what happens when we crank up the stress
Yeah, people are not making logical decisions. You know when things get emotional
whenever people are involved. Yes
Like that's it and because that's just there's there's all those dynamics of those relationships and
History and and way people talk and treat each other and it creates and then people become emotionally attached to their own plan
And so he has to put it in the book to codify it as you've got to be able to
Unemotionally detach and analyze what is the best decision that is gonna have the biggest impact on the battlefield or the impact the battlefield
Yeah
The character of the hostile leader and the hostile troops it may be used in estimating the conduct of the enemy
especially
If we have had
Previous battle experience with those so you got to know you're going to guess that's patent right there. I read your book
As a determined decision
Must be logic must be the logical result of careful consideration of all factors the decisions made will not always correspond to the actual
Conditions presented this is interesting the decisions made will not always correspond to the actual conditions conditions presented
Then the situation develops other than the decision
contemplated
he
has the greatest prospect
Of success who quickly and skillfully exploits other reconnaissance
But does not change the decision except with compelling reasons so that's the same thing
We were we were talking about earlier
So you stick with your decision until you see that it's not a good decision and then you change it or you can do that
Get quickly analyze that right that's how like Boyd said what they would eloup is a quick
You can go through that it would eloup than better you could out maneuver. I used to do this all the time in even it in task unit bruiser
When things weren't going the way I expected them to go
my
strongest
Desire was to keep doing what we plan to do like okay look
Oh we didn't expect to take contact from over there cool
But we're gonna keep pressing through from the north or whatever
And that was my that was my that was where I leaned toward I always leaned toward go with the plan
You know plan your dive dive your plan right we stand diving here you come up with a plan
You go out there everyone's walked through it everyone knows what the plan and we briefed it if you can stick with that you stick with it
But
Then sometimes you got to go oh, you know what I didn't expect what that and that is too big of a curve ball for us to handle
I'm making an adjustment we're making a call and that's where we have standard operating procedures and we make an adjustment based on something
That else that we've rehearsed a thousand times. That's right, so you've got to pay attention to that
Now we get into orders. This is pretty cool
The order puts the decision into effect clear orders are an essential
For the frictionless cooperation of all commanders
For the higher commander the written order provides the foundation for leadership
It is communicated to the lower units printed as a carbon copy
Type written or written by hand or by technical communications means
Frequently it is dictated over the telephone in every instance the most sure and suitable method of transmission is to be chosen
Should the order
Should the order be simple or short?
It may be orally communicated it must later however be committed to paper
So this is something that I talk about a lot and I always throw out this question to trip everyone up
I say what's better communication email or voice?
You know email or or conversation and everyone's conversation conversation conversation and and they're right, right?
Yeah kind of because what goes on what goes on is if if I call you up and I say hey Andrew
We're gonna do A B and C you good with that and you're like cool got it and then you go out and what I said is and what you heard
You do A B and D that's right and I go what would wrong with you?
And you say what you told me do A B and D? No, I still do A B and C and here we go
We have a problem so that's why when you and I have a phone conversation I say
We get done and I call you and I send your email. It says hey just want to confirm we're on the same sheet
We're gonna do A B and C and you email me back and say no, I thought you said you want to be doing A B and D
No, sorry
I didn't articulate it right we're definitely doing A B and C and you say okay cool got it so
verbal is great voice is great phone is great. Yes
But email is very clear now you flip that over
Okay, now I'm just emailing you hey Andrew do A B and C and you're like wait, why is he telling me this?
Is he is he told me this because he thinks I don't know how to do this myself right?
You know it's like and then we get into this whole thing. Why is he?
Long email is a long super steeped long emails that you didn't don't even read the whole thing because it's too long
so what you want to do is you want to use both
This is this stuff here
The fact that this is why this is why I this is why I majored in English because when I was a young officer and I hadn't been a college yet
Luckily
So I was able to figure out what I wanted to majored but I could already see and there was no war going on
This is like 1998, 1999
I could already see that the
Written messages that we'd get the
They were so important to be able to understand and then you had to build a right a concept of operation that made sense
And so I knew I was like okay, well, I know what I'm gonna do
I'm gonna get really good at this and I realized that
This idea of communicating with other humans was the actual basis of of all leadership up and down the chain of command
And what really helped me a lot was
When I when I had to study Shakespeare in college
The thing is Shakespeare is very humbling because you don't know what the freaking words mean
Because they're barely English right?
It's barely English and any one that says they can pick up Shakespeare and understand it is
Lying either lying to you or they came from a time machine
Because it doesn't happen
So what I realized you know because at first you're reading Shakespeare and you're like oh, I must be stupid
I'm stupid because I and you know the
It's like no actually you wouldn't know that word that word hasn't been used since 1648
So why would you know this word? Why would you know the meaning of that word? You wouldn't know it
So you have to look it up and you got I got very it's just you know what it is it's just humbling so when I would get some
R-o-e from down from some rules of engagement down from the chain of command and I'd look at it
Go, I'm not really sure what this means. I didn't just go. Oh, well screw it. I'll just make my best guess
No, I would get out of dictionary and look up the damn words that I didn't understand and then simple find because I you know if I don't
Understand what it means there's no way and hell you're in English major
Yeah, I'm an English major and there's no way in hell that some of our front line guys are gonna know it
So you got a translated form so this stuff about communications
Simple it's just yeah, it's got to be simple clear concise is what we say at echelon front
Simple clear concise that's the way it's got to be
F-
Continuing on them this is so good the more pressing the situation the shorter the order
Where circumstances permit or orders are given in accordance with the terrain not the map. Oh, that's good
So whatever chance whenever I can I'm actually taking you out there I'm actually looking okay Andrew
You see that hey over there. I want you to get you know put some machine guns up there because we're gonna salt through
You go okay got it now looking at a map. We're looking at the terrain itself
How often can you actually get eyes on
um
In the front lines and with the lower commanders this is particularly this is particularly so
We're important orders. It is often advisable to use two or more means of transmission
Which is what I just said and I tell that's company's all time
Hey, you want to get your you want to get your vision out to the company email it to them do a video do a conference call
Do a a poster that they can do it all get that message out there
Do you you know I hate to say over communicate because that implies it's too much but
Over communicate
When I think of over creamer kids like I'm gonna send you hey Andrew I'm gonna send you 48 emails every day
Yeah, I would know which one I was reading here is yeah, you know how to good conversation with Sarah
I'm sure I'm at the uh at mustard about this and about how in this day and age if anything people tend to over
Use email and we have these just swamped in boxes and
Having a in this modern day and age having a good plan in place for some comms discipline
Of and it's exactly what what you said earlier and then I've been using this in business for years
It's it's a conversation because you can get to the bottom line quicker because so much of the communication is
Non-verbal it's like tonality and then if you can do it in over a video of ETC or zoom or Skype or whatever
Great
So you get to the solution quicker because we're we're going back and forth on each other
We get to this we get to that final conclusion and then you follow up with an email because then it's black and white
And then you have like the the confirmation of this is what we talk about it. Yeah, exactly
It is easy to underestimate the time required to get in order through of that's a good one
It takes me to take a little bit longer than you thought oh here we go. This is what you were just talking about too many orders
Especially about all during which the communication means may
Miscarry produces the danger of causing injury to independence of action or lower of the lower commanders
So if you're if you're trying to tell everyone exactly what to do guess what
Eventually that order's not gonna get through and you know what they're doing they're waiting to hear it because you haven't
Descentualized command enough you've you've trained them like a dog only to do what you tell them to do
In order should shall contain all that is necessary for the lower commander to know in order for him to execute
independently his task
It should contain no more
Correspondingly the order must be brief and clear decisive in tone and complete
Adopted to the understanding of the receiver. Oh, that's what I just talked about adopted to the understanding so you got to translate those big words in the ROE down to the front line troops
And according to conditions his peculiarity the commander must never fail to place himself in the position of the receiver
I talk about perspective all the time you got to understand the perspective of the person that you're talking to
They don't have all the context that you have you got to you got to recognize that
The language of orders must be simple and understandable
Clarity which eliminates
doubts is more important than correct technique
Clarity must not be sacrificed for brevity
So sometimes you got to go a little bit more detail
Negative expressions and changes lead to half measures and our objectionable
Exaggerations are equally bad orders may bind only in so far as they correspond to the situation and its condition
And its conditions so that's good one orders may bind only in so far as they correspond to the situation and its conditions
So as soon as there's something outside that you can't
You can't say no don't go across the line of the limit of advance ever
Because guess what you might get in the contact and the only way to get out of it is across that limit of advance
So you better leave some flexibility in there
Still it is often necessary to issue orders in uncertain situations
If
Change is in the situation are to be expected before the orders put in execution the order should not go into details
So if you don't know really a hundred percent what can happen if you have
He says still still it is often necessary to issue orders in
Uncertain situation you're still gonna give orders but
If change in the situation it's be expected before the orders put in execution the order should not go into details
In great strategic operations especially when orders must be issued for several days in advance
This extension from details is to be specifically observed
The general intention is expressed the end to be achieved is especially stressed
In the execution of impending action the main instructions are given
The immediate conduct of the engagement is left to subordinate commanders in such a way the order is fully executed
Descentualized command 100 percent mission and state. Yes, this is what we're trying to get done here's we're trying to end up
Go make it happen
In so far as conditions permit
It is often best for the commander to clarify his intentions to his subordinates by word of mouth and discussion
Yet he must not make himself dependent on his subordinates the decision in orders are therefore solely his this is
Hey, you talked to your patoon chief as a patoon commander and your patoon chief is saying
We should come in from the west and attack from the west and you go, okay, sounds good and then you get
Hit strong forces and you failure mission your goal chief told you coming in for the witness the use of those
No, shut up. It was your call
He made his recommendation
Continuing it is recommended that the written order which directs the activities of different elements to a common goal
Be paragraph and the paragraph's numbered
That's like I kind of left that in there because this is the kind of detail this manual goes into like number your paragraph
Yeah
That which is important should be placed first check
Here we get here. This is this is good the following sequences recommended for operations orders
Number one information so in the US military and in and in NATO as a matter of fact
We use something called the five paragraph order smiac
Situation mission execution admin logistics and command and signal that's what we use in the US military
That's sort of our abbreviated
True pleading procedures boom you use situation mission execution admin logistics and command and signal
So here's they're talking about operational orders the first thing
Information of the enemy and neighboring units in so far as this is importance of the receiver
So what is that that's the situation enemy situation and friendly situation?
Next the intention of the commander in so far as it is communication
As it's communication is essential to the accomplishment of the end saw what is that? It's mission
So we've got situation mission we've got literally the exact same thing
Execution is what we have next and there's is missions for the elements of the whole command
What's that yeah that's that's the execution that's what we're actually gonna do
for America we have admin and logistics next and
They have
Orders for the light motorized columns the field trains and baggage trains the battle echelon
And the remaining reserve elements in so far as this is if an importance the troops so what's that?
It's all the logistics the whole the admin and the last one we have is
Command and signal which is how you're gonna communicate and where
You know this is when you'd be briefing you'd say uh, you know hey as the task in commander
I'm gonna be on this ridge line
So we have command and signal the last thing that I say is command post and communications to and from
Wonder where we got some yeah, so there's the origination of smieck
It's you know it comes from the troop in fear
That's where we got good man how this book has it has escaped
Like my junior officer training you know what I mean like that's what we're trying to solve right now
Yeah, that's what we're trying to solve we can't solve it we can't go back in time
But I promise you there are
NCOs out there I talked to them all the time there are junior officers out there
I talked to them all the time they send me messages there are battalion commanders
That
That go through this and listen to it. So we're good. Yeah, we've worked we're taking care of the problems in the past
We're this is absolutely true. That's why I'm sitting here
It's literally why I'm sitting here because I get it I get a damn email or I get a message from a Marine Corps
Second lieutenant
That's in the game or I get a letter from an army
Sergeant that's leading a squad and it's like thank you got it
I got admit when I was a junior officer. I was so busy so busy, you know
Rabadiers you guys can't see that like with whatever I was tasked with yeah, I'd never had time to
Read a book like this. I read what books I was basically forced to read and I got through them as best I could
And the best leaders made me do those things because I was so darn busy
It wasn't a priority in me it met 23 years old to do that
But man some of these things I learned firsthand and like as you're reading them I'm like yeah
Why absolutely know this to be true?
But I learned it like by actually touching the hot stove myself, you know well they've berk was talking about it
When he was at the basic score is like they gave him a stack of manuals and it said read the manuals
But the problem is you don't have a context around them. Yeah, so that makes it much much harder to read
It's like distant you don't really and even for me when I when I'm reading something
With all the context I have around it like when I read it
Like when I first started reading books that I knew I was gonna do on the podcast it gave me a new level of appreciation before I was reading because I was like oh, okay
So here's how I'm gonna describe this to everyone because
Just like we were talking about written versus email versus verbal right when you read the written word
It's different than when
someone is putting
the
Influence
On the right spot right the when you're using the tone and all that stuff and I mean it's that's coming from
That's coming from Colonel William Reader who had him oh I was reading his book to him on this podcast
And he's like this is very emotional for me because I haven't you know read this book since I wrote it and
It's very
Hard to listen to
You know it's like yes when you add the voice it's there's something more to it and then when you have someone that's a knuckle dragger like me
That says oh here's what this is here's what we're talking about here
Here's what what here's what this actually means here's what this translates to
On on the battlefield in the boardroom somewhere here's the way it actually works
So that's what's good even though we didn't get the ideal training we can give it to them now. Yeah, and I think it's so important
We talk about training and how important training is for preparation like
At least at the very least hey you got to read this book at the very least okay, I mean in the absence of that
It's like a complete failure, but at least go okay read these books, but you've got to find the time to do the training
Read the books and then as a leader
Sit down kid. What does that really mean when we go out and we operate in this way? Where are the lessons from this book that we can apply?
Yeah, really do it. Yeah, you know, it's like
For me
What I was reading about face and I read about face like when we were in remoddy
I read it for the first time
I'm not sure 100% sure when I read it for the first time
But I knew that when I brought it to a body
I was like that's the only book I brought with me. Wow and
The thing is
I would read that like I would read that to fall sleep
Right, I just get up to my room. I would open up to a random page that rented enough times
That I don't need to read it from cover to cover but I'd open up to a random page and I'd be like oh
Oh, this is this is what I'm experiencing right now. Oh, yeah, okay. He experienced the same thing
I remember one of the first nights I was there flipped it open and I start reading it and what it saying is
He they're working with the South Vietnamese military and the South Vietnamese military was untrained on a quipped
Um, they were they were totally devoid of any kind of ethics in terms of money and you know it was cropped
So I was like okay, so he so in Vietnam they were doing the exact same thing that we're dealing with here
Okay cool
Let's look at how he dealt with it. You know what I mean?
Look there that's the person that actually made me say
Okay
The Iraqi soldiers are not going to be like us they have a different culture
They they run things a different way. It's not it's not wrong
It's just different from the way we do think the classic cases the Iraqi officers
Skimming money right off the enlisted guys paychecks right and
We're to us this is like a total
Total sin right the ultimate sin you're gonna steal money from your enlisted troops for them
The enlisted guys
That's what they expect yeah, they take he's the boss. Yeah, hey, he's gonna take a little bit. He's gonna take his little cut
Of course, he's the boss. You know what are we doing?
We're he's gonna he's still generous us, you know, he's not taking all of it
Right and we had to get that through our minds. You know that
That that their attitude their cult their culturally different and so if we swaced a bunch of time
Trying to sort out their pay they're all looking at us going what are you doing?
What why are you trying to create a conflict with us we I'm the boss. I'm gonna take my cut
What are you talking about right to them? It's just as simple as that's how it's just how it is. Yeah, you know
And and so
For me like reading about face that was that was the book that really
Tuned me into okay
There are less this here. I mean that's why
That's why I named task in a prison task near prison because that's what that's what hack worth did
100% stolen from hack worth
100% but all the little things cover movie talks about there talks about decentralized command all the time
Talks about all those things are there he doesn't it's not even a leadership book it's all in there though
So yes, these types of situations where
The other thing that happens is
Everything we've said so far right just every topic that we've talked about
Is in extreme ownership it's in the dichotomy of leadership it's all in there
But all of it is a different angle and just like when you when you experience the same thing
But from a little bit of different angle you know it better that's right you know it if I teach you an armlock
And then dean teaches you an armlock and then Andy teaches an armlock
You got little something different from each one of us. It's just a little different sign a little different movement and you get better at it
Same thing happens here you you hear that same message maybe in a little different way
Maybe a little different spin on it maybe shown in a different scenario
You actually learn from it and that's what's important because the more you the more
The more variations of the same thing you've seen the better off the better you understand it
And it makes you that much better and if you see the way if you know the way broadly you see it and all things and the more you see it the more you know it
So yes
That's the way it should be
Continuing on
Suppositions and expectations are to be so indicated reasons for the measures ordered belong only
exceptionally in the order
Detailed instructions covering all possible contingencies which are matters of training do not belong in an order
It's interesting they say suppositions and expectations of what we call those in the military column assumptions
We just talked about that. I do. Nope. Me lie
It is often suitable to issue a warning order
Warning order informs the latest developments of the situation it is used to affect with the most origin
Preparations likewise it is used to permit the troops to come to rest
Earlier and also permit them to plan to rest longer so warning order something that we also use
Another section here
When an order or report is transmitted orally the one bearing the order or report must repeat it to the issuing person
A person transmitting a written report should be instructed as to its contents in so far as conditions permit
Officers transmitting orders should as a rule be instructed as to the tactical situation. It's funny even in the teams
When someone says peel right everyone repeats the call you repeat it back to the person that just told you and then you repeat it to the next person
The place of the commander and his staff this is the next section we're going into the personal effect of the commander on the troops is of great importance
He must be near the fighting troops the choice of location for the core commander should be based upon the requirement of the establishment of
Rapid and continuous communication to the divisions and the rear. He cannot rely along technical communications
Meaning telephone wires and all that we can do better with this now, but back in the day and even even so
There's nothing that beats face to face nothing nothing
Nothing beats beats face to face great distance in spite of adequate communication
Facilities lengthens the command and report lines in dangers the system and may lead to
late reports and orders or even
Failure of arrival moral for great distance makes difficult personal terrain study and a personal knowledge of the process progress of the battle
The division commander belongs with his troops
boom
Don't get so detached
This section is called and we just I just jump through a bunch of really granular tactical stuff if you're
No, no, it's very good stuff to read
Good to jump through it
This section is called attack
Which is just a worth covering it's own right?
The attack is affected through movement fire thrust and through
Thrust and through the direction in which it is directed the attack can be directed from one direction against the front
But ordinarily the greatest strength is launched against the flank or the rear of the enemy more over and a
Tag can be launched from several directions with a breakthrough of the hostile front
New attack directions are provided so when you flank someone guess what there's gonna be other opportunities there are appear
The frontal attack is the most difficult of execution yet it is the most frequent out for the outflanking attack is more efficient than the frontal
simultaneously outflanking of both enemy flanks presumes considerable superiority and
An development of one or both hostile flanks and reaching deep into his rear can lead to the annihilation of the enemy
This is something that's very tricky
Because we talk about development of the enemy which means surrounding the enemy and
in a small that's cool
If you're in a
Battalion or bigger and actually I want to say brigade or bigger like we're talking massive battle field movements
Because when you get when you if you envelop if you have a if you have a company of soldiers
150 soldiers and you envelop the enemy
Guess what you're doing
This spread then well not only you spread then
When you surround the enemy you are all pointing your weapons at yourself
That that's the real problem so we're in into this a lot in in the teams where guys would want to surround the target and and there's some
It's problematic. It's very problematic. You have to that's why you know the classic L
Shapes whether ambush or L shaped assault
There's a reason for that. There's a reason why the guys in Vietnam taught us to do that
Because as long as you know what your fields of firearm you can you can go hot if you're in an L shaped
Ambush or you're in an L shaped assault the minute I put people
You know whether it's 270 degrees around the target or 360 degrees
I can't I now I have to worry about my backdrop and it's a real problem and you know what you can get away with those
You can get away with enveloping a target all day long as long as there's no shooting but the minute the enemy starts shooting
It's a problem
So there are ways to cover exits from an L
You extend that a little bit you can put some overwatches in
But it is a real problem to think that you're gonna develop a target in a small you know
Let's say with with direct fire weapons
Company size or smaller. It's a real problem to think you're gonna be able to develop a target and not have a problem
If there's a big firefight
It's gonna suck. Yeah, and those lines those phase lines can get confused real quickly as we know and
But flanking the enemy is awesome and you should do it every opportunity you get in all aspects of life
Continuing a little bit more about the development the development presumes a frontal fixation of the enemy
So you you still have to lay down some sort of fire to make them
Distracted
The enemy is most certainly fixed if his entire front is attacked however such an attack demand strong forces
Which must be absent from the enveloping wing
Often therefore
Must the attacker be content with limited objective or faint attacks so you're trying to
Yeah, if you if you use every troop that you have to do the frontal front all salt well
Then you've got no one left to flank. So there's another cool thing like in the teams
You'd have the little assault force that was gonna move and so when I first was like going through SKT
Well, we just take all the big machine gunners and put them in the base element like you guys are gonna lay down fire
And then all of all the other guys with the with the M4s
We would be the assault team. Well, what happens when the assault team gets compromised?
They're compromised. They're compromised and now they can't advance
So now they lay down and start laying down fire will now the base force just became the assault force
And guess what they're holding yeah, but you have a weapon. It's they're not very they're not as mobile and even worse
The now base force all they have is M16s and they're going ping ping
Right that's not gonna keep anyone's head down compared to an M60 right so I learned that very early
What you don't you don't and it was great for me because that was another thing that initially taught me
Hey, you got your standard operating procedures you got two squads
You know you got two squads in a pertinent cool one is base one is assault don't pull the heavy weapons into the base force
Because you might need them well, I think and two it's it's if the enemy
In the in their he's saying well the enemy is is fixed right you have it it presumes
The frontal assault like that's the main effort and and but if that shifts if they become wise to the flanking maneuver
And they begin to put more forces there than the whole thing just dynamically shifted around and so by loading up your base with your automatic weapons
Now you're now you're totally off balance. Yes. Yeah. Yes. Yeah. These are the little things that I learned along the way
Then I then I was like oh, then that makes sense. So there's a good reason to have you and a w or two and each squad us yeah
a w two
That's the best best position
Check here's talking about execution of attacks
Bases of the cooperation of arms so what are we talking about here?
Hmm the objective of combined arms and an attack is to bring the infantry in its decisive action against the enemy with sufficient fire power and shock
Action so that is possible to drive through deeply and break down the final hostile resistance
This goal is first reached when the hostile artillery is taken or is forced to retire all arms cooperating
In an attack must recognize their mutual capabilities and consider their respective limitations. They require continuous close communications with one another
The cooperation between the attacking infantry and the supporting artillery governs the course of the attack
full cooperation must exist in time and space
Throughout the attack and this is a little something that we call cover and move yeah
And what's interesting is how much they talk about communication
Continuous close communication with one another in the cooperation cooperation you know in the Marine Corps
When we covered when when they burn and I covered
The tactics manual they call cover move
Cooperation that's what they call it and so that's that I wonder where they got that from
Yeah, well cooperation working together, but also look like break the word in two pieces. It's co operation
Right, so you have two different elements that have to even have different chains of command
Right you got an artillery unit you have an infantry unit and
You know we we saw this in our body, too. We're here. We are a naval forces unit with one set of communication method working with our
Mean Marines use different types of communication who own the battle space. We were guests in their battle space and we had to co operate
Right we had to co operate that meant
Communication working together to ensure you know that synchrony of effort and without that that's when you know
I wear we're gonna be operating this here. Where are you gonna be? What do you want to tell you? I got this kind of like this old
You know, so we will talk like that
That's not what we did and that's part of why we had successors because we co operate with the army and Marines
No doubt about it continuously yeah, we cover moved with them 100%.
It is the duty of both infantry and artillery just to cure their cooperation through mutual
Established permanent and effective communication. What does that mean? That means you better have a relationship with them too
Sorry to know you're about to read what I just said no no it's good. That's that's once again proving that
that actually what we're talking about is
Timeless and it and it and it should be obvious to people on the battlefield. It should be obvious to people
In the in the business world it should be obvious to people that are trying to work together inside of a family
Should be obvious
But once again
The reason we have a business
The reason we have a business is because it's not is obvious. It's not just easy to execute this stuff
As it is to read it. Yep, it takes practice and it takes technique and and the best way to get good
out of this to do it but you're gonna make mistakes and you
And you're gonna learn from them you well you better learn from them
So
That's actually a good place to wrap up this
um
This document, you know this document this crazy document
Group in furok
Which is just
Tons of those lessons in there and
Either lessons learned most of March is lessons reinforced. That's what most of them are
Simplicity of conduct will most surely obtain the objective
Friction mistakes or an everyday occurrence. This is for those you out there with the
Um, what do they call it? A zero defect mentality wrong
People are gonna make mistakes
There's gonna be friction. There's not you're not gonna get to do anything easy for doing something easy
Guess what it's you shouldn't move on and find something more challenging
mutual trust is the cherished form of discipline
That right there
When you when you think of discipline as something you're gonna impose on your troops you're wrong
Your wrong discipline is formulated through trust
Strictly maintain discipline is a better for tall and
And then this one
One of my favorites from this is the first demand of war is decisive action
Decice of action
That
Is what we need that's what we all need the words and the thoughts and the plans and the ideas
They all mean nothing without action
And I'm definitely not saying that you don't need to think or you don't need to plan or you don't need to have ideas
But I am saying that none of those things matter unless you take
action
So
I think that's all we've got for tonight and if you want to take some action in your life and your world
Here's some things that you can do change the jitsu that's a good one
You're training right now, Andrew. I am
Check back on the mats of justice very humbling the last muster
I just woke up me back out of the mats. Oh
Because you realized you need to get your game back. Oh, it was just humbling. That's just the only way I can describe it
See you're lucky you had that jiu-jitsu you had the you had jiu-jitsu before a lot of people had jiu-jitsu because you were training in the 90s
Yeah, yeah, so you kind of rested on those laurels a bit right?
Right? I yeah, well, and everybody else got really good and I got rusty. Yeah, yeah, I said I've been training
Not in jiu-jitsu anyway. Yeah, so back on the mats. Hey if you're if you're training jiu-jitsu
Go to originmain.com
You can get American made everything
Giz
the best Giz
You can support this podcast and you can support America
We got T-shirts
hoodies
Giz. Do I say Giz? Yes, I did and jeans by the way now we got jeans. That's right American made jeans
cotton from America
woven in America
sewn in America
by
Americans it's awesome and
actually available now for the first time
for pre-order
origin boots
origin boots so same thing you know we've we
invested in the machinery we found the the old timers
that know that did that for the living before
Factory started going overseas so check out the origin boots supplements during warfare
cruel oil discipline discipline go and also discipline go ready to drink buya
I see you've been sucking on that thing over there
You drink a lot of those
Draco mustard you know I
I was I dang
Well, you I'd had some at night and you're drinking that right now I'm like yeah man tastes great
I like it. I'm a fan of the tropic thunder oh yeah
So we got tropic thunder we got lemon lime
which is called citrus psycho
I'm running low on that right now so I didn't really
When you brought it in here you just remembered that my preference
No you're lucky
I was like oh what if that jaco
paying attention to the guys' work form like you know you don't care
Don't care all the thing I said about caring was not true
I just that's what I have left I didn't want to sacrifice any of my lemon lime
You threatened to that
No dude I remembered
I was taking care of you so yeah you can get that you can get those cans
Ultimately you're gonna be able to get those everywhere in the world that's what I'm talking about
because it's good for you
those
the ingredients
everything ingredients
filtered carbonated water natural flavor citric acid monk fruit extract
That's the ingredients look at the ingredients on any other can of what the crap is in there
Not so bad so it's got a bunch of other things b12 and magnesium and sodium potassium and there's caffeine in it
So anyways check it out
You'll dig it and it will get you
It'll get you kind of fired up and it'll get you going
Yeah exactly it's going water kid milk milk strawberry chocolate whatever a bunch of different flavors
Jaco white tea check that out. We have our own store jaco store calm rash guards t-shirts
Choccer's has beanies hoodies
Everything on there's legit
If you want to support the podcast it's awesome subscribe to the podcast subscribe to this podcast the warrior kid podcast
I got a couple that are approaching readiness so we'll be there. I usually
Roll those out three to time so I got one in the bank working on a couple more
YouTube if you want to see echo Charles's legit videos that you can go there and you can in the comments
Teleco that is jacked he's not here right now to defend himself but boy to see love it when people tell him he's jacked
He's all he acts all humble but he loves every second
Yeah
Psychological warfare get that on iTunes Google play if you want to know alarm clock
You want the jaco alarm clock jaco you should make it alarm clock. It's there. Oh, I have it this
Yeah, it's called psychological warfare if you want that go to any MP3 platform
You can get it flipside canvas dot com Dakota my brother
He's making
Cool things to hang on your wall got a bunch of books
The next book to come out is called leadership strategy and tactics field manual
Breaking down this stuff at a tactical level pragmatically so you can execute it
Also way the warrior three kid just came out a little while ago. It's called where there is a will
Talked about will today. Shouldn't children know about the power of their will?
Yes, they should get him the book that's literally called where there's a will and you know the rest of it
They're the way where the warrior kid books are also available
Way the warrior kid in marks mission Mikey in the dragons best kids book ever you're one of the first people I read it to
Yes, before was even imprint the bill wasn't even print it was like I just
Scratched it out so good
Yeah, it was awesome when I read it to you and you were like I could see the look in your face
You're like how did this knuckle dressing right now?
Yeah, same exact so good. That's a gift I give to like
Friends of mind to give to like kids like it's a bedtime story. It's so good and there's something in there for all of us adults
There is there is indeed and then there's discipline because freedom field manual
How to get after it manual
The audio version of that is on it's mp3 is not audible
It's that because same thing I want to be able to be able to break it down and put on there alone so that's what I did
iTunes whatever mp3 extreme ownership with my brother-lave babin dichotomy leadership with my brother-lave babin
Everything that we're talking about
in modern language
Examples from the battlefield in the business world very straightforward principles
One of the best I think it's the best selling business book since it came out extreme ownership
That got to me leadership people say it's better interestingly enough. So get those to
EF online
We made online training four leadership because you can't just go to one
Event or read one book and think that you're all good to go you need to continually train and and that's what we made
EF online for EF online dot com it is leadership training interactive leadership training
Online check it out and we have one more master this year. It's in Sydney, Australia all the other
Mustard we did we did Chicago sold out we did Denver sold out we had to change the room around in Denver
To because we had so much demand so we changed the room around that's not happening in Sydney
Sydney is absolutely going to sell out go to extreme ownership dot com if you want to come I look forward to seeing you all in Sydney
And we're going to announce
The 2020 dates pretty soon. How do you like mustard? Oh, mustard is amazing
So good and you know teams need to come together. Yeah, you know you I mean
I've gone to events for years. There's nothing like mustard. You know running a business is nothing like mustard
And I'll just tell you that
Come as a leader for sure the value of bringing several of your other key leaders with you
So you're all hearing the material together. Yeah, it's one thing to go individually
It sure that's great
But the tendency is to come back like Moses coming down the mountain with the tablets and everyone's you're fired up and it's like okay
But when they when several of you hear it together
You can really implement change in your in your organization. Yeah, that's good going and we've seen a lot more that
There was some people some companies that brought
20 plus that's amazing the mustard the amazing
Indeed, we we set aside some seats so that they could be together right you're talking about
Like 20 plus people and there's there's plenty of companies that brought four yep, you know brought six
Some people come alone that's fine, too
But yeah, if you can bring a few people from your team and you can all hear it from the horse's mouth and you can all bounce these ideas off each other
It just adds that much more to the
Experience and just kind of FY when we do these we go to the hotels
The hotel people are like this is the most incredible thing this is the only event where
When the doors open at 745 in the morning after we do PT it's at 445
Combat shower
When there's people lined up waiting to get in there and then every you know the hotel staff will be like everyone so proactive and nice
And you know no one's rude. It's just like good people. It's awesome. Yeah, because what are people focused on people on folks not getting after it winning
And and and being good and I'll tell you to just some of the knives. I don't you don't see this in other events
For those you listen and life in jaco basically
They don't basically eat all day
No, every break so called life in jaco or sitting there talking to everybody and that's something that feedback that I see consistently
People are like wow, life in jaco and all the instructors are so accessible. Yeah, so it's not like the session sessions end and
Leave in jaco disappear back into their green room. Yeah, yeah, yeah, they're out front
So you get a lot of really good in her. I stopped saying no green room, but there is no green room at the master
So where where there if you think if you want to come hang out come hang out. That's what we're doing
At a course right now we have yeah, overwatch and this was cool to see this at at the master you know people say
Where can I get
Leaders that have these
Principles in their brain how can I get them to my company? Well, believe me, life and I've been at getting asked that for years and so what we did was
We created a company with Mike's Rally who's another
Ashland front guy another one of our brothers from to you breuser and and you know he said hey look
He's he'd been working with veterans transitioning into the civilian sector and he said hey, let's rock this and so
That's what we did great idea from Mike and so now we've got it
EF Overwatch whether you're
Special operations veteran or
Aviation combat aviation veteran and little news flash
Coming soon we are opening it up
We're we got another wing of EF Overwatch we're about to bring online which is gonna be for
Everyone in the military because
We the demand is so high and look you're in special operations great you got some you know you've got great leadership experience
You know who else has great leadership experience
In for triple tune commander right on infantry platoon sergeant so
We
We started with the community that we know we know it best
But the fact the matter is and you know this as well as anyone the the rest of the military
They're great people their great leaders
They've great experiences so we're creating something right now that is gonna open this up
So we can plug in our great experience to military people from every branch from every
MOS
for every job specialty and and let them apply those leadership skills that discipline
To the civilian workforce and make the veterans life better and make America better make the company's better
It's just a win win so we got that rolling out the next few months, but just a heads up on that one
And if you need more of this conversation because
Two straight hours of me and Andrew Paul is not enough then you can find us on the in-webs
We're on Twitter
Instagram and we are on dying frozen block Andrew is the Andrew Paul
And I am at jockel willink
Andrew got any close-knots get after it every day. I love your post, you know
None of us are promised tomorrow. Mm-hmm. Make us big of an impact you can every single day
I've had a lot of time to think about
Life and particularly recently passing on my grandfather and other friends of ours
At the end of the day we're only here on this earth for a certain amount of time
And I think the biggest legacy that we can leave is how we impact the lives of other people
And that can be at a small level
Doesn't cost anything to say a kind word to somebody to offer some encouragement
To show an act of kindness to hold the door
That doesn't cost anything and I think we can make a huge difference every day in just how we interact with other people
In kindness and in getting after it every single day so that when I meet St. Peter at the early gates
And I meet my maker
He says well done good and faithful servant
Chuck and it's interesting that that ties right back into this premise that as a leader
One of the most important things if not the most important thing that you can do as a leader is care about your people
Now
We learn from military history and those
Lessons are of course written in blood
Written in blood by the men and women around the globe
That have served that are currently serving that protect our freedom every day so thank you to all of them
Our police and law enforcement and firefighters and paramedics and EMTs and dispatchers and correction officers and border patrol and secret service and all the first responders out there
same thing
Holding the line
Thank you all for keeping us protected
Here at home and to everyone else out there whether you're in the military or not
Whether you're a first responder or not whether you have a mission or you just have a job
No matter what situation you're in
It all starts
When you start
When you actually start when you take decisive action that's what you need to do you need to make it happen by getting up every day
Then getting after it
Until next time
This is Andrew Paul and Jocco out